#present bit
the hardware (or the OS, in a software-managed TLB approach) deter-
mines this is through a new piece of information in each page-table entry,
known as the present bit. If the present bit is set to one, it means the
page is present in physical memory and everything proceeds as above; if
it is set to zero, the page is not in memory but rather on disk somewhere.
The act of accessing a page that is not in physical memory is commonly
referred to as a page fault.


#page-fault handler
runs to determine what to do. Virtually all systems handle page faults in
software; even with a hardware-managed TLB, the hardware trusts the
OS to manage this important duty.


    Check the location of the referenced page in the PageTable
    If a page fault occured, call on the operating system to fix it
    Using the frame replacement algorithm, find the frame location
    Read the data from disk to memory
    Update the page map table for the process
    The instruction that caused the page fault is restarted when the process resumes execution.


#What If Swap-Memory Is Full?
the OS might like to first page out one or more pages to make room
for the new page(s) the OS is about to bring in. The process of picking a
page to kick out, or replace is known as the page-replacement policy

#When Replacements Really Occur
The OS usually doesn't way until memory is full before swapping to disk, rather to keep a small amount of memory free, most operating systems have a kind of high watermark (HW) and low watermark (LW) to help decide when to start evicting pages from memory.
When the OS notices that there are fewer than the LW pages available, a background thread that is responsible for freeing memory runs.
The thread evicts pages until there are HW pages available. The background thread, sometimes called the swap or page daemon then goes to sleep.
By performing a number of replacements at once, new performance optimizations are possible. Many systems will cluster or group a number of pages and write them out at once to the swap partition, increasing the efficiency of the disk.

#Conclusion
We now use the present bit, which when false, issues a page fault that traps into the kernel and is responded to by the page fault handler, which arranges for the transfer of the desired page from disk to memory, first replacing some pages in memory to make room for the one coming in.
These actions all take place transparently to the process. As far as the process is concerned, it is just accessing its own, private contiguous virtual memory.
Behind the scenes, the process' pages are placed in arbitrary and non-contiguous locations in physical memory and sometimes they are not even present in memory, requiring a swap in from disk.
